Conceptual Spatial Representations for Indoor Mobile Robots (2008):
- Earlier work -

They built a conceptual map to integrate environment with ontology knowledge. The environment knowledge
is typically asserted by human and not discovered by the robot. The robot may be able to infer the
type of room by object recognition, but there is no understanding of relations between rooms and how
that affects the robot's inference.


Egocentric Qualitative Spatial Knowledge Representation for Physical Robots (2004):
- Earlier work -

Modeling complex behavior imposes strong requirements on the underlying representations. The representation should 
provide several levels of abstraction for activities as well as for objects.

They chose egocentric representation, which is a relative representation of the objects around the robot,
based on the heuristic that it provides better support for acting directly in physically grounded environments,
since perception as well as the use of actuators are directly based on egocentric representation. Their reasons
are not very strong and they only use "literature" to support it.  (The authors point out that in many fields,
describing something typically involve both egocentric and allocentric terms.) Predefined landmark relations.

(It's interesting that they never seem to point out any weakness in their own work. Everything they say is either
positive or twisting-to-positive)


Factoring the mapping problem: Mobile robot map-building in the Hybrid Spatial Semantic Hierarchy (2008):
- Earlier work -

(Basically builds on The Spatial Semantic Hierarchy in 1999, by Benjamin Kuipers
   In this paper, the author introduced the importance of having a spatial knowledge:

   Spatial knowledge is foundational to commonsense knowledge, and hence to most
   kinds of knowledge that humans possess. Spatial metaphors are ubiquitous in discourse,
   and draw on preexisting spatial knowledge to communicate relationships and processes
   that would be difficult to communicate otherwise [59]. Spatial knowledge is grounded in
   sensorimotor experience: that is, the meanings of symbols in a symbolic representation
   of space are constrained by experience of perception and action [33]. Spatial knowledge
   takes a number of quite different forms, including procedures for getting from one place
   to another, topological network maps of an environment, and geometrical models of the
   environment [67]. Children exhibit qualitatively different types of behavior as they grow
   and develop, acquiring the ability to construct and use different forms of spatial knowledge
   [79,89].

   There are several different types of spatial knowledge, distinguished by the nature of
   the interaction between the agent and the environment. This paper focuses primarily on
   large-scale space, which is defined as space whose structure is at a much larger scale than
   the sensory horizon of the agent. Thus, to learn a map, the agent must travel through the
   space, gathering local observations and inferring their global relationships from the actions
   linking them. Memory and processing limitations are also important to the representation
   of large-scale space, since the time required for travel is long enough for other pressing
   concerns to interrupt the processing of spatial knowledge. Human knowledge of large-scale
   space is sometimes called the cognitive map, though it is in many ways not map-like [48].
   Other closely related but distinct types of spatial knowledge include visual space, which
   describes the immediately surrounding environment and is explored quickly by moving
   the gaze [97], and graphical space, a special case of visual space where the structure is the
   spatial layout and relations among symbols on paper or other display [30].
   This paper focuses on large-scale space because the different types of knowledge and
   the learning processes are particularly accessible, being spread out in space and time, both
   exploration time and developmental time. We also focus on the problems of exploring
   the environment and learning its spatial structure, rather than on problem-solving, on the
   grounds that many effective algorithms exist for way-finding based on various spatial
   representations [20,35].
)

Our approach factors the mapping problem into natural sub-goals: building a metrical representation
for local small-scale spaces; finding a topological map that represents the qualitative structure of large-
scale space. (This is very similar to our approach. I'm interested in how they actually find the topological
map.)

Topological mapping is the other major paradigm (besides metric) studied in mobile robotics. Cognitive map research sup-
ports the creation of topological maps of large, complex environments [Lynch, 1960; Siegel and White,
1975; Kuipers, 1978; Chown et al., 1995; Kuipers, 2000].

A topological map, in its most basic form, rep- resents an environment as a graph where nodes represent places and
edges represent connections between places. Several groups of robotics researchers have presented distinct topological
implementations that differ in their semantics for the graphs—how they define/describe places and actions between them [Kuipers
and Byun, 1991; Mataric, 1992; Shatkay and Kaelbling, 1997; Duckett and Nehmzow, 1999; Choset and
Nagatani, 2001; Morris et al., 2005].

Some implementations build topological maps autonomously, some are
given topological maps a priori [Koenig and Simmons, 1996], and some let the robot explore autonomously
while the researcher provides place names to overcome perceptual aliasing issues [Kortenkamp and Wey-
mouth, 1994].

The major hurdle for topological map-building has been the reliable abstraction of useful symbols from
continuous, noisy perceptions of the environment: i.e., how to reliably detect and recognize places and
paths. This is an instance of the more general symbol grounding problem [Harnad, 1990] that has troubled
the AI community for many years. Probabilistic approaches are good at overcoming the kinds of local
uncertainty and systematic noise that can hinder reliable symbol extraction. Incorporating probabilistic
data association techniques into the topological map-building paradigm has sparked interest in hybrid map-
building, including the HSSH approach presented in this paper.

Their topological map encodes actions as well, because it is built upon the information of previous layer that involves
robot motion. I think this makes the map less flexible. This topological map building focuses on "joints" and gateways,
so the number of nodes are sparse. They also use Voronoi graph, which I think is used in a very similar way as
what Francesco did.





Hierarchical Hybrid Planning in a Mobile Service Robot (2015)
- Recent Work -

I am not able to understand what they are trying to do. They seem to be combining HTN (Hierarchical Task Network) with
CSP (Constraint Satisfaction Problem) search in order to improve the robot task planning complexity and breath of knowledge
coverage.


The Inn at the Crossroads - A Model of Distributed Spatial Knowledge

The paper describes a simple experiment aimed to demonstrate the possibility to create distributed cognitive
maps of certain environments by means of recording basic information about the purposeful motion of a population of
mobile agents.

These active places interact with the mobile agents and create local patches of relevant navigation information, which is
shared with other agents that reach the respective place. As a result, the system exhibits a globally consistent spatial
behavior, using only locally available, incomplete spatial knowledge. Their spatial knowledge representation is simply a graph
of accessible nodes and nothing more.



What can we learn from 38,000 rooms? Reasoning about unexplored space in indoor environments (2012)
- Recent Work -

This is very close to what I am doing, which is understanding indoor environments. But it is mostly about
human understanding -- not machine learning.

Many robotics tasks require the robot to predict what lies in the unexplored part of the environment. Although
much work focuses on building autonomous robots that operate indoors, indoor environments are neither well understood nor
analyzed enough in the literature. In this paper, we propose and compare two methods for predicting both the topology
and the categories of rooms given a partial map.

In particular, utilizing graph theory, we discover that local complexity remains unchanged for growing global
complexity in real-world indoor environments, a property which we exploit. Using this insight, we present two methods
for predicting extensions to partial topological maps including room category labels.

We report statistical properties of indoor environments by investigating the two floor plan data sets from
different parts of the world. This data-driven approach to understanding man-made environments at the topo-
logical map level is new and not found in previous work. We present various properties of indoor environments
with the aim that such analysis will improve future designs of robots that operate indoors.

Problem formulation: Given an incomplete floor plan graph, predict the most likely next room category together with where
it is connected to in the current graph or the most likely new path between the two rooms.

Their prediction results are not very good -- even with graphs of size around 15, the correctness of prediciton is around 10%.
They didn't use machine learning. Their approach is mostly based on counting the edit distance between all possible splitted graph
and those in dataset?


Searching Objects in Large-scale Indoor Environments: A Decision-theoretic Approach (2012)
- Recent work -

Enable robots to search for objects in indoor environments. There is also a manmade semantic network. This is useful to
planning of more specific tasks.



Lifelong Information-Driven Exploration to Complete and Refine 4-D Spatio-Temporal Maps (2016)
- Recent Work -

This letter presents an exploration method that allows mobile robots to build and maintain spatio-temporal models of
changing environments. The assumption of a perpetually changing world adds a temporal dimension to the exploration
problem, making spatio-temporal exploration a never-ending, lifelong learning process.


Unsupervised Learning of Qualitative Motion Behaviours by a Mobile Robot (2016)
- Recent Work -

The success of mobile robots, in daily living environments, depends on their capabilities to understand human movements
and interact in a safe manner. This paper presents a novel unsupervised qualitative-relational framework for learning
human motion patterns using a single mobile robot platform. It is capable of learning human motion patterns in real-world
environments, in order to predict future behaviours.
